docs: Cluster Peering for OSS Technical Preview (#13433)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/cluster-peering/create-manage-peering.mdx

A peering token enables cluster peering between different datacenters. Once you generate a peering token, you can use it to establish a connection between clusters. Then you can export services and authorize other clusters to call those services.

To peer clusters, you must complete the following steps in order:

1. Create a peering token
1. Establish a connection between clusters
1. Export service endpoints
1. Authorize connections between peers

## Create a peering token

You can generate peering tokens and initiate connections from either the server agents or the client agents in your clusters. For the current release, we recommend you initiate peering through the client agents in the partitions you want to connect.

To begin the cluster peering process, generate a peering token in one of your clusters. The other cluster uses this token to establish the peering connection.

In “cluster-01,” issue a request for a peering token using the HTTP API.

```shell-session

> $ curl -X POST --data '{"PeerName":"cluster-02"}' http://localhost:8500/v1/peering/token

Reviewer: nit: use the long-form of CLI flags so that they're more easily readable.
```suggestion
$ curl --request POST --data '{"PeerName":"cluster-02"}' --url http://localhost:8500/v1/peering/token
```

```

> The CLI outputs the peering token, which is an encoded string of alphanumeric characters and symbols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI outputs the peering token, which is a base64-encoded string containing the token details.
```

## Establish a connection between clusters

Next, use the peering token to establish a secure connection between the clusters. In the client agents of “cluster-02,” establish the peering using the HTTP API. This endpoint does not generate an output unless there is an error.

```shell-session
$ consul peering establish -peer="cluster-01" -token="eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJhZG1pbiIsImF1ZCI6IlNvbHIifQ.5T7L_L1MPfQ_5FjKGa1fTPqrzwK4bNSM812nW6oyjb8"
```

In the peer parameter, specify a name for the first cluster. The `PeeringToken` parameter should include the entire peering token created in the first cluster.

When you connect server agents through cluster peering, they will peer their default partitions. To establish peerings for other partitions through server agents, you must specify the partitions you want to peer using the `Partition` field of the request body.

## Connect service endpoints

> After you establish a connection between the clusters, you need to create a configuration entry that defines the services that are available for other clusters. Consul uses this configuration entry to replicate service definitions and support service mesh connections across clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you establish a connection between the clusters, you need to create a configuration entry that defines the services that are available for other clusters. Consul uses this configuration entry to advertise service information and support service mesh connections across clusters.
```

First, create a configuration entry and specify the `Kind` as `“exported-services”`.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="peering-config.hcl" highlight="1" hideClipboard>

```shell-session
Kind = "exported-services"

> Partition = "partition-name"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
If these docs are for OSS, I believe partition should be removed.

    Namespace = "default"

    ## The list of peer clusters to export the service to.
    Consumers = [
      {
        ## The peer name to reference in config is the one set
        ## during the peering process.
        Peer = "cluster-02"
      }
    ]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Then, add the configuration entry to your cluster.

```shell-session
$ consul config write peering-config.hcl
```

Before you proceed, wait for the clusters to sync and make services available to their peers

## Authorize connections from peers

Before you can call services from peered clusters, you must set service intentions that authorize those clusters to use specific services. Consul prevents services from being exported to unauthorized clusters.

First, create a configuration entry and specify the `Kind` as `“service-intentions”`. Declare the service on "cluster-02" that can access the service in "cluster-01." The following example sets service intentions so that "backend-service" can access "frontend-service."

<CodeBlockConfig filename="peering-intentions.hcl" highlight="1" hideClipboard>

```shell-session
Kind      = "service-intentions"
Name      = "frontend-service"

> Partition = "partition-name"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Sources = [
  {
    Name   = "backend-service" 
    Peer   = "cluster-02"
    Action = "allow"
  }
]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

**Tip:** If the peer’s name is not specified in `Peer`, then Consul assumes that the service is in the local cluster.

Then, add the configuration entry to your cluster.

```shell-session
$ consul config write peering-intentions.hcl
```

## Check peered cluster status

> To confirm that you peered your clusters, you can [query the `/health/service` endpoint](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/health) of one cluster from the other cluster. For example, in "cluster-02," query the endpoint and add the `peer=cluster-01` parameter to the end of the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that you peered your clusters, you can [query the `/health/service` endpoint](/api-docs/health) of one cluster from the other cluster. For example, in "cluster-02," query the endpoint and add the `peer=cluster-01` query parameter to the end of the URL.
```

```shell-session
$ curl \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/health/service/service-name?peer=cluster-01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/health/service/service-name?peer=cluster-01"
```
I recommend quoting this URL to avoid issues with Unix shells trying to interpret the `?` is a glob character.

```

> Successful connections include service definitions in the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful query will include service information in the output.
```

## Remove peering connections

After you create a peering connection between clusters in different datacenters, you can “unpeer” the connected clusters. Deleting a peering connection stops data replication to the peer and deletes imported data, including services and CA certificates.

In “cluster-01,” request the deletion via the HTTP API.

```shell-session

> $ curl -X DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl --request DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Create and Manage Peering Connections
description: >-
    This page describes how to use the Consul CLI to create, manage, and delete peering connections for cluster peering.
---

# Create and Manage Peering Connections

> ~> This page covers features that are currently in _technical preview_. Features and functionality are subject to change. You should never use the technical preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in technical preview may face performance and scaling issues, with limited support options available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
->**Cluster peering is currently in technical preview**: Functionality associated with cluster peering is subject to change. You should never use the technical preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.
```
We should use a meaningful label in callouts.

A peering token enables cluster peering between different datacenters. Once you generate a peering token, you can use it to initiate a connection between clusters. Then you can export services and authorize other clusters to call those services.

To peer clusters, you must complete the following steps in order:

1. Create a peering token
1. Establish a connection between clusters
1. Connect service endpoints
1. Authorize connections between peers

## Create a peering token

> You can generate peering tokens and initiate connections from either the server agents or the client agents in your clusters. For the current release, we recommend you initiate peering through the client agents in the partitions you want to connect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can generate peering tokens and initiate connections from either the server agents or the client agents in your clusters. We recommend you initiate peering through the client agents in the partitions you want to connect.
```
Let's use maintainable language that isn't temporal where we can.

To begin the cluster peering process, generate a peering token in one of your clusters. The other cluster uses this token to establish the peering connection.

> In “cluster-01,” run the `generate-token` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `cluster-01`, issue a request for a peering token using the HTTP API.
```
We should use monospace for all parameters/values

```shell-session
$ consul peering generate-token -peer="cluster-02"
```

The CLI outputs the peering token, which is an encoded string of alphanumeric characters and symbols.

For the peering token to function correctly, you must enter the second cluster’s exact name in the `peer` parameter.

## Establish a connection between clusters

Next, use the peering token to establish a secure connection between the clusters. In the client agents of “cluster-02,” run the ``peering establish`` command. This command does not generate an output.

```shell-session

> $ consul peering establish -peer="cluster-01" -token="eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJhZG1pbiIsImF1ZCI6IlNvbHIifQ.5T7L_L1MPfQ_5FjKGa1fTPqrzwK4bNSM812nW6oyjb8"

Reviewer: The API was renamed in #13419 from `/v1/peering/initiate` to `/v1/peering/establish`. The example command should reflect that renamed API endpoint.

```

In the peer parameter, specify the first cluster’s exact name. The `token` parameter should include the entire peering token created in the first cluster.

> When you connect server agents through cluster peering, they will peer through their default partitions. To connect other partitions through server agents, you must specify the partitions you want to peer using the `partition` parameter.

Reviewer 3: Some clarifications since peering is a relationship between partitions not something that happens through partitions:

```suggestion
When you connect server agents through cluster peering, they will peer their default partitions. To establish peerings for other partitions through server agents, you must specify the partitions you want to peer using the `Partition` field of the request body.
```

## Connect service endpoints

After you establish a connection between the clusters, you need to create a configuration entry that defines the services that are available for other clusters. Consul uses this configuration entry to make services and support queries for service mesh available to peered clusters.

First, create a configuration entry and specify the ``Kind`` as ``“exported-services”``.

> <CodeBlockConfig filename="peering-config.hcl">

Reviewer 4: it seems like this file is incomplete... if this is intentional, let's remove the clipboard and highlight the `kind` since that's what you want to call out 

```suggestion
<CodeBlockConfig filename="peering-config.hcl" highlight="1" hideClipboard>
```

```shell-session
Kind = "exported-services"
Partition = "partition-name"

Services = [
  {
    ## The name and namespace of the service to export.
    Name      = "service-name"
    Namespace = "default"

    ## The list of peer clusters to export the service to.
    Consumers = [
      {
        ## The peer name to reference in config is the one set
        ## during the peering process.
        Peer = "cluster-02"
      }
    ]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Then, add the configuration entry to your cluster.

```shell-session
$ consul config write peering-config.hcl
```

> Before you proceed, wait for the clusters to sync and make services available to their peers

Reviewer 3: Should this link to the "Check peered cluster" status section?

## Authorize connections from peers

Before you can call services from peered clusters, you must set service intentions that authorize those clusters to use specific services. Consul prevents services from being exported to unauthorized clusters.

> First, create a configuration entry and specify the `Kind` as `“service-intentions”`. Declare the service on "cluster-02" that can access the service in "cluster-01." The following example sets service intentions so that "backend-service" can access "frontend-service."

Reviewer 3: Could we reverse these so that the frontend-service accesses the backend-service? That's a more common pattern

> <CodeBlockConfig filename="peering-intentions.hcl">

Reviewer 4: same thing, if we don't expect users to run this. let's hide clipboard and highlight the relevant sections

```shell-session
Kind      = "service-intentions"
Name      = "frontend-service"
Partition = "partition-name"

Sources = [
  {
    Name   = "backend-service" 
    Peer   = "cluster-02"
    Action = "allow"
  }
]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

> **Tip:** If the peer’s name is not specified in ``Peer``, then Consul assumes that the service is in the local cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-> **Tip:** If the peer’s name is not specified in ``Peer``, then Consul assumes that the service is in the local cluster.
```

Then, add the configuration entry to your cluster.

```shell-session
$ consul config write peering-intentions.hcl
```

## Check peered cluster status

To confirm that you peered your clusters, you can [query the `/health/service` endpoint](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/health) of one cluster from the other cluster. For example, in "cluster-02," query the endpoint and add the `peer=cluster-01` parameter to the end of the URL.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/health/service/service-name?peer=cluster-01
```

> Successful connections include `"Status": "passing"` in the output.

Reviewer 3: The health status of a service is independent from the status of the peering connection. Verifying that the peering is established should be done by checking whether the services were imported, not that they're in a particular status:
```suggestion
Successful connections include service definitions in the output.
```

For example, if you peer with another cluster that exported a service that is down for some reason. If the service is received after the peering establishment that's what we're looking for. The service being down and not in a "passing" state is not a concern for the peering establishment.

## Remove peering connections

After you create a peering connection between clusters in different datacenters, you can “unpeer” the connected clusters. Deleting a peering connection stops data replication to the peer and deletes imported data, including services and CA certificates.

In “cluster-01,” run the `peering delete` command.

```shell-session

> $ consul peering delete -peer="cluster-02"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ curl -X DELETE http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

Create a JSON file that contains the first cluster's name and the peering token.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="peering_token.json" hideClipboard>

```json
{
    "PeerName": "cluster-01",
    "PeeringToken": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJhZG1pbiIsImF1ZCI6IlNvbHIifQ.5T7L_L1MPfQ_5FjKGa1fTPqrzwK4bNSM812nW6oyjb8"
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Establish a connection between clusters

Next, use the peering token to establish a secure connection between the clusters. In the client agents of “cluster-02,” establish the peering connection using the HTTP API. This endpoint does not generate an output unless there is an error.

```shell-session
$ curl --request POST --data @peering_token.json http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/establish
```

In the peer parameter, specify a name for the first cluster. The `PeeringToken` parameter should include the entire peering token created in the first cluster.

When you connect server agents through cluster peering, they will peer their default partitions. To establish peering connections for other partitions through server agents, you must specify the partitions you want to peer using the `Partition` field of the request body.

> ## Connect service endpoints

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Export service endpoints
```
